LNURL-withdrawPOS flow (#16)
lightning/blips: blip-0015.md

```
bLIP: 15
Title: LNURL-witdhrawPOS flow
Status: Active
Author: David Coen <info@davidcoen.it>
Created: 2022-05-23
License: CC0
```

## Abstract

LNURL-withdraw is a bech32-encoded HTTPS query string or sub-protocol of LNURL 
which gives the users the ability to receive funds via Lightning Network without the need of manually create an invoice.
Users scan a QRcode or paste the LNURL-withdraw link into their wallet, 
this queries a server and gets a JSON with some info, 
such as the max amount the user can receive, the min amount the user can request, etc. 

> Then the wallet tipically asks the user to enter an amount and under the hood it creates a Lightning invoice and sends it to the service provider, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then the wallet typically asks the user to enter an amount and under the hood it creates a Lightning invoice and sends it to the service provider, 
```

Reviewer: Maybe mention that the invoice creation MUST respect the parameters returned by the server.

which eventually pays that.

> So the only things the users have to do are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From a high level the user-visible flow consists of:
```

1. Scan the QR code / paste the LNURL-withdraw link into the wallet
2. Enter the amount to receive
3. Confirm

> In this repo I schematize a LNURL-withdraw flow for POS, 

Reviewer: Don't use the first person to write a specification, use neutral language.

> which sees the interaction between the user and a POS equipped with a NFC sensor.

Reviewer: NFC in this case seems more like an example transport rather than an explicit limitation.

> This bLIP serves to document what could be a reference flow for open source implementations of POS devices able to read LNURL-withdraw links via NFC,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This bLIP serves to documents the flow for open source implementations of POS devices able to read LNURL-withdraw links via NFC,
```

Again, NFC seems more like a detail here, artificially limiting the applicability (links, QR codes, etc are just as valid as transports).

> for a better UX in Lightning payments powered by LNURL protocol.

Reviewer: `better` as compared to what?

the merchant/payee has to simply enter an amount on the POS and this will active the NFC sensor, 
waiting to receive the LNURL-withdraw link. The payer has to transmit the LNURL-withdrawPOS link via NFC
and doesn't need to confirm the payment on the wallet.

## Motivation

Payees that support this open flow help improving the UX of Lightning payments:
a user can just pay with a NFC tag in which a LNURL-withdraw link has been stored, instead of asking the payee to create an Invoice and scanning the QRcode.

With this flow the users can also make "offline" payments and this completely change the UX of a Lightning payment: 
they could reserve a part of their funds on a LN wallet for "offline" payments in a LNURL-withdraw string, 
so they can use it offline, for example when they are abroad and don't have a stable connection or have roaming issues. 
They could also define sub-balances in their wallet, so once the reserved funds are ended, no other funds in their wallet is touched.

![LNURL-withdraw POS offline payments](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theDavidCoen/blips/master/blip-0015/offline%20payments%20LNURL-withdrawPOS.png)

## Rationale

> There are security concerns in regards to LNURL-withdraw links used as prepaid Lightning cards, which are expressed [here](https://github.com/theDavidCoen/LNURL-withdrawPOS#security-concerns-in-regards-to-lnurl-withdraw-links), but this bLIP aims just to clarify how the receiving part of the flow works and to represent a guide for an open standard, so it's not its goal to highlight them.

Reviewer: It is better to document limitations such as these security concerns in the proposal itself, rather than linking to external resource which may change over time, and links may break. In particular security concerns and caveats should be well-documented here, as implementors are unlikely to ever read them if not readily accessible.
